Namaskar
Welcome to Nishamadhulika.com
Today we'll make Rose Water
(Gulab Jal)
Rose water is easily available
in the markets,
is cheap as well,
but in some places, it isn't available.
In such places, you'll have
to make your own.
So let us begin.
The ingredients are:
Rose Petals
and water.
You'll need this cauldron
in which we'll place a net,
and place rose petals on it;
then a smaller utensil,
in which we'll collect
the rose water
and we'll place the lid upside down,
so that the steam
condenses into the utensil.
This is the cauldron
we'll place the net in it;
and we've placed
the rose petals on it.
For making One Cup Rose Water,
we'll add Two Cup water.
We'll place the utensil on the net;
and now we'll place the lid;
and now we'll turn on the flame.
The set-up is being heated  by the flame;
the water has begun boiling;
now we'll place some ice cubes
on the lid
So that the steam gets condensed quickly,
and gets collected.
So within about 20 minutes
our Rose Water will be ready.
So after 20 minutes, we'll be able to
collect the rose water.
It is almost ready;
we can see that the steam
is getting condensed.
So we'll turn off the flame is a while;
and once it cools down,
we'll store it in a bottle.
The rose water has cooled down,
we'll keep the lid aside;
and will carefully take out the utensil.
and will collect the rose water
in a bottle.
You may use it in any recipe,
or for medicinal purpose;
and for more recipes,
visit my website:
nishamadhulika.com
See you again @ Nishamadhulika.com